# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Green Belt

You qualified for a Green Belt 🥋🟢 and got a final grade of 4.84/6 for M1. Great job! You're building solid foundations. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 5.04 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 5 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 5 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 3.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 5.5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **4.84 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

The APK doesn't crash and there are not noticeable bugs, the app is reactive to inputs, to lanscape mode and the navigation is quick and fast and there's no lag. However some features that seem implemented aren't completly usable yet. The app doesn't expose much functionality yet.
- Sonar is correctly integrated in the repo
- The tests are run by the CI
- There is at least one meaningful end-to-end test
- The line coverage on M1 code is 90

Code reviews are not consistent across all PRs, try to have the same standards for the review because for now we go through excellent reviews that point out excellent points and catch good issues, but we also find reviews that are not sufficient for the PR and that are sometimes superficial. 

Another point is that the naming conventions are not yet full consistent so try to follow the conventions you have set up earlier

For this part, you received 5.04 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

Sprint backlog was filled on time and everyone had a task assigned, it was well organized and every task has a description of what to be done so everything is good. Maybe just lacks of some risk planning.

The product backlog is also maintained properly including things discussed in meetings. But could me more populated with user stories and ideas

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

The figma looks good except the fact that the test tags for example should go in the wireframe, not the UI page. However you dont have a proper user flow (linking the pages with buttons) making a whole prototype directly on figma.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

The Architecture diagram is well done and correctly shows the architecture of the app but isn't completly up to date. There are certain parts of your app that should reflect in this diagram.

For this part, you received 3.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

Every document is filled on time and handed before the meeting and that helps a lot since its a good support for the meeting

The team doesn't manage yet to do all the meeting by itself, we still have to lead the meeting but we do see some progress. You should be able to discuss about new things bring new ideas and discuss with the SM and PO autonomously. However the team manages to split tasks into manageable parts and that leads to good sized PRs. The meetings start on time and everyone comes on time no one is late and that's a very professional behavior from the team so that's really good.

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 4.84. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!




