# SwEnt M2 Team Grading Report

The M2 feedback provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on how well your team has applied good software engineering practices, delivered user value, and collaborated effectively. We assessed the quality and maintainability of your implementation, the clarity of your design, and the consistency of your delivery and teamwork across Sprints. An important component is how much you have progressed since the previous milestone. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document. As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.45/6 for M2. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into six categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, code quality)**   | 5.38 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-code-quality) |
| **Features**                             | 5.5 out of 6   | 20%        | [See Details](#features)                  |
| **Figma and Architecture Diagram**       | 5.75 out of 6 | 10%     | [See Details](#figma-and-architecture-diagram) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog**     | 4.25 out of 6    | 10%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)**  | 6 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents-autonomy) |
| **Consistent Delivery of Value**         | 6 out of 6 | 10%      | [See Details](#consistent-delivery-of-value) |
| **Final Grade**                          | **5.45 out of 6**   |            |                                           |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

---

## Implementation (APK, code quality)

We evaluated your APK’s functionality, stability, and user experience, along with the quality and consistency of your code. We also reviewed your CI setup, Sonar integration, and tests, including the presence of at least two meaningful end-to-end tests and the line coverage achieved.

The apk is reliable but we can note some issues : one that you already know is the select location that doesnt work when I type a full location, also the current location button doesn't work even if we saw it work in the meeting.
When I go in the add an item, and then after I spam the add button I managed to publish 2 times the same item by spamming the button. And overall the app feels slow because of a lot of loadings so maybe try to find a way to cache some things and make the user choose when to reload the data.
I can search for myself and request a follow and accepts and I think that's an issue.
The overall code lacks modularity in some parts.

For this part, you received 5.38 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Features

We evaluated the features implemented in this milestone. We looked for the completion of at least one epic, as well as the use of at least one public cloud service, one phone sensor, and a concept of authentication.
We assessed how well the implemented features align with the app’s objectives, integrate with existing functionality, and contribute to delivering clear user value.

Very good features values but we can find some features that are not complete. For example the search screen doesnt feel complete as a feature. You cant search for someone without clicking his name in the suggestions, I mean that when we want to search it has to give us suggestions about what we typed. And also it doesnt feel complete because of the way we get results, since now users have profile pics it doesnt feel complete as a feature to have only the name and a button in a big container.
Also the map is not considered as a complete feature since it's just here and not linked with other features 

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma and Architecture Diagram

We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure. 

The figma is up to date and consistent with the app, keep it this way and try to keep it ahead of the app.

For this part, you received 5.75 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them. We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

The sprint planning was not that complete for sprint 6 and many of you didn't have a task assigned.

The product backlog has been refined since M1 with small additions but you have a lot more ideas for the app that you specially discuss during the meetings but we don't see them in the product backlog so don't forget it since it's an important section in the scrum board

For this part, you received 4.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)

We evaluated your ability to autonomously run and document the Scrum process. We looked at how well you documented your team Stand-Ups and Retrospectives for each Sprint. We also assessed your level of autonomy in organizing and conducting these ceremonies, defining and prioritizing user stories in your Product Backlog, and planning well-scoped Sprint tasks that lead to concrete, valuable increments.

This part is excellent for your team, you're always on time and all the documents are thoroughly filled, and you can handle a full meeting without us which demonstrates a great autonomy. 

For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Consistent Delivery of Value

We reviewed your team’s ability to deliver meaningful increments of value at the end of each Sprint.  
We assessed whether your progress was steady, visible, and tied to concrete user value and app functionality, in line with your Product Backlog objectives.



For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M2 is 5.45/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Keep up the good work and good luck for the next milestone!

