# SwEnt M3 Team Grading Report

This M3 milestone is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

---

## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final team grade of 5.49/6 for M3. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into seven categories for the team grade. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**                | **Weight** | **Feedback**                               |
|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------|--------------------------------------------|
| **Completeness**                         | 5.2 out of 6 | 20%        | [See Details](#completeness)               |
| **Functionality**                        | 5.5 out of 6 | 20%       | [See Details](#functionality)              |
| **User Experience**                      | 6 out of 6 | 5%       | [See Details](#user-experience)            |
| **Design and Maintainability**           | 5.15 out of 6 | 20% | [See Details](#design-and-maintainability) |
| **QA (Testing)**                         | 5.62 out of 6           | 20%        | [See Details](#qa-testing)                 |
| **Documentation**                        | 6 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#documentation)              |
| **Autonomy**                             | 6 out of 6     | 5%         | [See Details](#autonomy)                   |
| **Final Team Grade**                     | **5.49 out of 6** |            |                                            |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find more detailed comments below.

---

## Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main epics in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.

We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the course requirements articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.

We also looked at the robustness and completeness of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.

The app covers several epics and seem all fully developed and coherent. However one drawback is that I can consider the offline not complete. Especially when I try to publish a post or delete a post.

For the delete post : when I try to delete a post when offline, I just have an endless loading. When I go back it successfully deleted the post but it should make me go back directly instead of having an endless loading.

For the add post : when offline and I try to add a post, it just loads indefinitely. But in this case when I go back it didnt create the post at all. So the add post doesnt work in offline. The comments also work this way (loading and working when online).

This gives you 2 options : either you let the user know that the actions are not possible offline and that your app is meant to be used online (by snack bars or toasts), or you queue everything on the device and let the user use the app, then when online it sends all the things queued.

The items on the public posts are not fetchable (we didn't take your last apk where you fixed this because it was generated late, and the late penalty gives you less points than if we grade the app with this problem).

A last thing is the comments section that "dance/shake" when I pull it to the top.

For this part, you received 5.2/6.

---

## Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to handle unexpected inputs provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., the APK: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of user authentication and multi-user support: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.

The app navigation is good, however we can (by tapping randomly the navigation bar and then go back using the phone) make the app enter in a loading state that stays forever unless you restart the app completely.

However, account creation and login function correctly, enabling users to access the application without issues. The application allows users to log in again cleanly, with consistent behavior across sessions. The main collaborative or interaction feature works as intended and provides a functional core experience for the user.

For this part, you received 5.5/6.

---

## User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how intuitive and user-friendly the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.

Excellent addition of the "tutorial" at the beginning of the app when you create an account for the first time. The visual consistency of the app and layout are excellent. App very intuitive to use. Perfect !

For this part, you received 6/6.

---

## Design and Maintainability

We evaluated whether your code is of high quality and employs best practices.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We also assessed your overall app architecture and design, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram), we expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.

Your app architecture is very clean, the folders are very well separated, the code is modular, excellent job! Even the naming of the classes is very good, it's self-explanatory and very well structured.

However you have some minor issues in your code : 
- val path = Path().apply { addRect(Rect(0f, 0f, size.width, size.height)) } in CameraScreen.kt. This local variable is never used.
- in PreviewBottomActions(), 2 of the parameters are not used.

Any many other minor issues, all listed in sonar. 

Also, the names of your branches is not consistent.

For this part, you received 5.15/6.

---

## QA (Testing)

The first aspect we looked at here was your test suite, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect the testing to be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

Your testsing is very good. The continuous integration pipeline runs on pull requests, ensuring that the project is automatically validated and that regressions are detected early.

Sonar is integrated into the repository, providing visibility into code quality issues and helping maintain a high standard of reliability.

Only minor point is that overall your tests are "happy tests" (since you do the tests after making the code which is normal), but tests should really be there to test more the hard paths that can make your app in trouble.

For this part, you received 5.62/6.

---

## Documentation

We looked at your README and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of your app’s documentation. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, the development setup and guidelines for contributing.

We also assessed your use of Figma and the architecture diagram for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma and Architecture diagram to be complete and up-to-date. The Figma should be consistent with the UI and the Architecture diagram should be comprehensive.

The readme is excellent I'm really impressed. Your repo is ready to be part of your portfolio with a readme clean like this.
Additional developer-oriented documentation is provided, such as CONTRIBUTING guidelines, module-level documentation, or API usage notes. This supplementary material improves maintainability and helps new contributors understand and work with the codebase more effectively.


For this part, you received 6/6.

---

## Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to function autonomously as a team.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.

The autonomy is exemplary for your team, you don't need coaches and know how to manage yourselves to keep giving value each sprint. We are really happy that you reached this level of autonomy, you have successfully completed this course.

We're really impressed with how things went for you and very pround of you for being such a good team and for winning BOTA. You deserved it, congratulations !

For this part, you received 6/6.

---

## Summary

Based on the above points, your grade for this M3 milestone is 5.49/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.



